pages/getting-started/installation.mdx, before:

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { FileTree } from 'nextra/components'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import { GithubIcon } from '@/components/icons/GithubIcon'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Installation

Learn how to install and run Plantree locally, covering setup, installation, and execution.

## Requirements

+ [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) version 18.0 or above.
+ [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) version 16.0 or above for storing user data.

## Clone the Repository

Fork and clone the Plantree repository to your local machine. Here is the button above:

<br />

<Cards.Card
    icon={<GithubIcon />}
    title="Plantree Repository"
    href="https://github.com/signup?source=login"
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener noreferrer"
    arrow
/>

## Project structure

When you cloned the repository, you will see the following project structure:

<FileTree>
  <FileTree.Folder name="plantree" defaultOpen>
    <FileTree.Folder name="app" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="components" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="domains"  />
    <FileTree.Folder name="fonts" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="hooks" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="lib" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="prisma">
      <FileTree.File name="schema.prisma" />
    </FileTree.Folder>
    <FileTree.Folder name="public" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="server" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="store" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="styles" />
    <FileTree.File name=".env" />
    <FileTree.File name="components.json" />
    <FileTree.File name="next.config.js" />
    <FileTree.File name="package.json" />
    <FileTree.File name="postcss.config.js" />
    <FileTree.File name="tailwind.config.ts" />
    <FileTree.File name="tsconfig.json" />
  </FileTree.Folder>
</FileTree>

### Project structure rundown

- `/app/`: Contains the main application logic, including pages and routing.
  
- `/components/`: Holds reusable UI components that can be shared across different parts of the application.
  
- `/domains/`: Organizes domain-specific logic, separating different business contexts.
  
- `/fonts/`: Stores font files used throughout the application.
  
- `/hooks/`: Includes custom React hooks to encapsulate logic that can be reused across components.
  
- `/lib/`: Contains utility functions and libraries that assist in various tasks.
  
- `/prisma/`: Manages database schemas and migrations using Prisma ORM.
  
- `/public/`: Houses static files such as images and other assets accessible to the client.
  
- `/server/`: Includes server-side logic and configurations.
  
- `/store/`: Manages application state using state management libraries like Redux.
  
- `/styles/`: Contains global styles and CSS files used in the application.
  
- `.env`: Environment variables configuration file for different environments.
  
- `components.json`: Custom configuration or inventory of components used in the project.
  
- `next.config.js`: Configuration file for customizing the Next.js application behavior.
  
- `package.json`: Lists project dependencies and scripts for managing the project.
  
- `postcss.config.js`: Configuration for PostCSS, used for transforming CSS with JavaScript plugins.
  
- `tailwind.config.ts`: Configuration file for Tailwind CSS, setting up design tokens and themes.
  
- `tsconfig.json`: TypeScript configuration file, specifying compiler options and project settings.


## Running the development server

<Steps>
### Install dependencies

Navigate to the root directory of your project. Then, run one of the following commands to install the necessary dependencies:

```sh npm2yarn
npm i
```


### Create `.env` file

Create a new file named `.env` or Copy the `.env.example` file and rename it to `.env`.

```sh
touch .env
# or
copy .env.example .env
```

<FileTree>
  <FileTree.Folder name="plantree" defaultOpen>
    <FileTree.File name=".env" active='true' />
  </FileTree.Folder>
</FileTree>

### Config `.env` file

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  See the [Environment Variables](/guides/environment-variables) section for the full list.
</Callout>

Update `DATABASE_URL` with your personal connection string:

```text {5}
NEXT_PUBLIC_PROJECT_ID=3d31c4aa12acd88d0b8cad38b0a5686a
NEXT_PUBLIC_POSTS_PAGE_SIZE=20
NEXT_PUBLIC_THEME=plantree-theme-minimal
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=22a61fbc9af9bf8ea0bdcbba6258435c
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://your_db_url"
```

### Start the server

Start the development server by running the following command:

```sh npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

Once started, the server URL will be displayed in the terminal, usually http://localhost:3000.

</Steps>

Next, check out the next section to learn about configuring the website.

Commit message:

docs: update installation and configuration

pages/getting-started/installation.mdx, after:

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { FileTree } from 'nextra/components'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import { GithubIcon } from '@/components/icons/GithubIcon'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Installation

Learn how to set up and run Plantree locally, covering all necessary steps from installation to execution.

## Requirements

+ [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) version 18.0 or above.
+ [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) version 16.0 or above for data storage.

## Clone the Repository

Fork and clone the Plantree repository to your local machine:

<br />

<Cards.Card
    icon={<GithubIcon />}
    title="Plantree Repository"
    href="https://github.com/signup?source=login"
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener noreferrer"
    arrow
/>

## Project structure

After cloning, your project will have the following structure:

<FileTree>
  <FileTree.Folder name="plantree" defaultOpen>
    <FileTree.Folder name="app" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="components" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="domains"  />
    <FileTree.Folder name="fonts" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="hooks" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="lib" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="prisma">
      <FileTree.File name="schema.prisma" />
    </FileTree.Folder>
    <FileTree.Folder name="public" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="server" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="store" />
    <FileTree.Folder name="styles" />
    <FileTree.File name=".env" />
    <FileTree.File name="components.json" />
    <FileTree.File name="next.config.js" />
    <FileTree.File name="package.json" />
    <FileTree.File name="postcss.config.js" />
    <FileTree.File name="tailwind.config.ts" />
    <FileTree.File name="tsconfig.json" />
  </FileTree.Folder>
</FileTree>

### Project structure rundown

- `/app/`: Contains the main application logic, including pages and routing.
  
- `/components/`: Holds reusable UI components that can be shared across different parts of the application.
  
- `/domains/`: Organizes domain-specific logic, separating different business contexts.
  
- `/fonts/`: Stores font files used throughout the application.
  
- `/hooks/`: Includes custom React hooks to encapsulate logic that can be reused across components.
  
- `/lib/`: Contains utility functions and libraries that assist in various tasks.
  
- `/prisma/`: Manages database schemas and migrations using Prisma ORM.
  
- `/public/`: Houses static files such as images and other assets accessible to the client.
  
- `/server/`: Includes server-side logic and configurations.
  
- `/store/`: Manages application state using state management libraries like Redux.
  
- `/styles/`: Contains global styles and CSS files used in the application.
  
- `.env`: Environment variables configuration file for different environments.
  
- `components.json`: Custom configuration or inventory of components used in the project.
  
- `next.config.js`: Configuration file for customizing the Next.js application behavior.
  
- `package.json`: Lists project dependencies and scripts for managing the project.
  
- `postcss.config.js`: Configuration for PostCSS, used for transforming CSS with JavaScript plugins.
  
- `tailwind.config.ts`: Configuration file for Tailwind CSS, setting up design tokens and themes.
  
- `tsconfig.json`: TypeScript configuration file, specifying compiler options and project settings.


## Running the development server

<Steps>
### Install dependencies

Navigate to your project's root directory. Run the following command to install dependencies:

```sh npm2yarn
npm i
```

### Create `.env` file

Copy the `.env.example` file and rename it to `.env`.

```sh
copy .env.example .env
```

<FileTree>
  <FileTree.Folder name="plantree" defaultOpen>
    <FileTree.File name=".env" active='true' />
  </FileTree.Folder>
</FileTree>

### Config `.env` file

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  See the [Environment Variables](/guides/environment-variables) section for all options.
</Callout>

Copy the following into your `.env` file:

```text {5}
NEXT_PUBLIC_PROJECT_ID=3d31c4aa12acd88d0b8cad38b0a5686a
NEXT_PUBLIC_POSTS_PAGE_SIZE=20
NEXT_PUBLIC_THEME=plantree-theme-minimal
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=22a61fbc9af9bf8ea0bdcbba6258435c
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://your_db_url"
```

Parameter Descriptions:

- **NEXT_PUBLIC_PROJECT_ID**: Project ID for Reown wallet integration. Default value available.
- **NEXT_PUBLIC_POSTS_PAGE_SIZE**: Posts per page. Default value available.
- **NEXT_PUBLIC_THEME**: UI theme. Default value available.
- **NEXTAUTH_SECRET**:Secret key for session security. Generate at [generate-secret.vercel.app](https://generate-secret.vercel.app/32). Default value available.
- **DATABASE_URL**: PostgreSQL connection string. Replace with your database URL.

### Push db schema

Synchronize your database schema:

```sh
npx prisma db push
```

### Start the server

Run the development server:

```sh npm2yarn
npm run dev
```

Access the server at http://localhost:3000.

</Steps>

Continue to the next section for website configuration.
